Well in the last video we took a look at using the jitter and spacing tools to give some randomness
to our brushstrokes.
What I'd like to do is this time add a texture to the brush that will help give it some detail or randomness.
Let's give that a try.
So I'm going to come down here to the texture area right here and I'm going to click new and create
a new texture for the brush.
So I click new and I get this black texture.
I'll give it a name instead of texture 001 let's call it let's call it noise about noise brush.
And now if we go over here on the right side let's do this.
In the materials here is the material that we've been working on right next to that is the texture layers.
And here's the texture layers that correspond to our texture slots.
So if we go over to our slots we can see we've got a base color the the normal map and that details
texture slot and that's what we've got here we've got the base color the normal map.
And this is actually the details one that we could call that.
So those are our texture layers and that's for our material but we can come right over here to the brush.
And now we can create a texture for our brush.
So for this instead of an image or a movie for our noise brush Let's choose.
We could choose all kinds of things.
These are procedurally generated textures.
We've got noise clouds marble.
Let's take a look at clouds here.
That looks kind of interesting.
Let me look at Stucky here.
Yeah it's not bad or we could go with noise too.
Noise to me looks a little too dense.
Let me let me go with.
Let's try this Stucky Yeah let's try that.
So now we've selected that if we go back to the Tools tab we can see that that is in our brush texture.
Now what I'm going to do is brush mapping here.
The default is often view plane.
I'm going to change it to random.
So it lays down this texture in kind of a random way and I'll come back up and I'll choose a lighter
color maybe something like this.
Now these are palettes I don't know if I've mentioned this.
You can sample colors and create a new palette by just clicking on the plus icon.
Here are the plus button.
So if I created a new color something like this I could just hit plus create a new palette.
And now that color would be there for me to sample any time you can create multiple palettes down here.
Let me move this out here so I've got one palette here I've got another palette here doesn't really
have anything in it.
I could create a new palette or a new sampled color for this palette as well.
And you can give the different palettes names things like that so I'll just go back to my original and
we go and I'll select that color here.
All right.
So now I'm going to zoom in to that belt.
I want to do this I want to work on this belt here.
If I hit the F key and zoom out a bit I'm going to increase the size of my breast just a bit.
And let's take a look at how the stroke is.
If I drag you can see that it lays down this texture in kind of a random way as I stroke.
And that's kind of what I'm looking for here.
Let me take the strength down a bit.
Let's also take a look at the spacing see if this does anything for us.
And it does it really space's it out quite a bit.
So let's let's try around 100
and maybe a little bit lower and Riego something like that.
So now what I want to do is lay down this texture on the belt strap in kind of a sloppy way I'm going
I just want to just scatter it around all over the belt.
So what I'm to do is use this face mask selection again.
I'm going to hit the A key to de-select everything and then I'm going to hover over the belt and press
l and that will select that whole thing based on our seems that we created when U-V mapping.
Now I can come in and just begin in a relatively sloppy way I just began laying down that texture.
So since it's masked off I don't accidentally get it on the rest of the model.
Now that may be a little bit too much.
Let me back off there.
Turned down the strength.
Reduce the size a bit.
And now let's try it.
Yeah something like that.
So it's going to go over this whole area like this.
Just to give it a little bit of extra interest
All right I've got that done I think I'm going to go through with yet another color and see if I can
add just a little bit more to it.
I like the fact that this leather texture has multiple colors in it that kind of multiple splotches.
So if I hold the key down let me see what kind of color I can sample here.
Maybe something a little darker this time.
Kind of like that.
Let me try this one.
So in a similar way I'm going to go through and just scatter some texture down on the belt.
But this time I think I want to make the brush stroke pretty small.
Let me see how this works.
And also I'll take the spacing and increase it even more and maybe even the jitter a little more as
well and let's see what happens.
Yeah I can see it going down a little bit there.
Yeah I kind of like that it kind of works it kind of blends in very very lightly.
I don't know if you can see that but I kind of like what it's doing.
Let me give it a little more strength here a little less spacing a little less jitter.
And something like that.
I just wanted to give it something a little bit more I'm not a big fan of just solid blocky colors so
I'd like to have some sort of multiple layers and colors in the textures.
All right.
That's good.
And I think one the last one I want to really like color in there.
Let me try this one here.
And actually take it up a little bit lighter
something like that.
So it's very very light.
Let me try this
well that's too much too much.
Back it off.
Make it a little bigger try this.
Something like that.
Just so it's a little worn as well.
Now as I'm looking at this I was just noticing that these metal buttons have some really nice colors
to them that I think I could maybe use for the buckles and maybe even the shoulder armor.
Well I'll go out and look for some other ones as well but these colors are kind of nice.
So maybe in the next video we'll take a look at using these colors and working on the metal armor pieces.
Now one thing I should mention before we go is that I haven't yet saved this text slot.
You can see the asterisks here so if I saved the scene and close the scene I would lose that information
that I just painted.
I would lose all of this.
So be sure and save your image.
It's a real pain when that happens.
But since I've already saved this image once I can come over to the slots tab and click on Save all
images and that will save any changes to any of the slots I have here.
So I'll save all images and that should take away the Asterix for all of these paint slots.